Perfect.
By the way, folks,
we can make this interactive.
You can stop me at any at any point you
know, and and ask questions.
You don't have to wait till the end.
And I'm happy to do that as we go along.
Alright, so as we get,
let's just jump right in.
Just a very brief introduction.
Not gonna speak a lot about myself,
but I'll give you in a kind of an ID and
overview of what Parker Avery Avery is.
So in terms of myself,
I've been in the space for, you know,
just, you know, in terms of analytics.
And really it's for me.
It's been 30 years, close to 30 years.
Now and it's been, you know,
my concentration that whole time has been
in demand analytics, right?
So we're talking about, you know,
retail analytics for and mostly
forecasting. And I would say pricing.
Those have been the the key focus areas
for, for myself,
you know the the companies that I would
have started right and in the
organizations that,
that that I have been with.
So the systems that.
That that,
I and my colleagues have built have been
deployed at.
Walmart's U.S. Foods.
Frito lays and and many other large.
You know,
Fortune 500 companies in in the US and
and abroad as well.
And then I I had to put in the last point
around dynamic aggregation,
because this is actually Eric,
Eric and I and another gentleman,
George actually have a have a paper out
in IEEE on on dynamic aggregation.
And Erica did a lot of work there and so
very thankful for that.
All right. So so let's just jump into,
you know,
just before we get into the AI aspects of
this,
I want you to understand the context,
right,
that of of where I where I do my work
right.
So we do a lot of Parker Avery.
We only concentrate on retail and
consumer goods. That's it.
We don't do healthcare,
financial services, none.
None of the others, none of none of those.
Other things, right?
So so when I talk about AI, right?
It's only as I through the lens of as I
see it in in those in those industries,
right and really within those industries
we we focus a lot on, you know,
like I said, forecasting pricing.
Inventory inventory management is is a
big part of what we do assortment
planning and and so on.
But if you'd say.
If there is a focus on one area,
if you have to describe it on one word,
it is it is inventory, right it is.
You know how? How you, how you plan it,
how you you know how you price it.
You know,
how you how you allocate it and and and
and so on, right.
So analytics is advanced.
Analytics is is one is one piece.
One piece of this,
but a big part of what we also do is.
Business process design,
organizational design,
change management and so on, right?
So this these are sort of our
capabilities.
Again, not a sales pitch,
just having you understand what is it
that we do.
In terms of the, you know, so,
so the companies that that, that,
that we work with right are you mean you
know just wanted to give you just just a
landscape mean this is not this is not
exhaustive but you know there's again the
Walmarts use foods the.
Michelins.
Of the world, Carters, Cabellos, Belks so,
so, so.
So we work with department stores as well
as some of the Cpg's like, you know,
PepsiCo and you know,
consumer brands like New Balance and and
and so on. OK.
All right, now, so,
so when we talk about again,
we're going to get into AI.
And I think the slide basically what we
just wanted to just just reiterate
analytics for analytics sake.
Well, you're all in Business School.
So you. So you understand this is.
Is is worthless, right?
So what you really need to you know,
you really need to understand the you
know, so.
So we start everything with business
process, right?
So so we.
So so we start with.
Business process and change management is
a big component of it and we talk about.
Change. We're really talking about, right?
A communication plan, right?
So when when you,
when you implement anything,
you have to make sure that of course the
people are bought in that you have the
proper training in place to bring people
along,
you have to think about things like
sustainment, right?
Right.
So when you walk out of the building or
you're done or you don't walk out of the
building, let's say this is internal.
What is the plan for sustainment of of,
you know,
of whatever it is that you're
implementing when you're done with with
the implementation, right?
So this is the lens that, that, that,
that,
that we that we you know looking through
when when doing our work, OK.
All right. So with that,
we're now ready to jump into the focus of
all of this and that is about, you know,
achieving ROI within within AI, OK,
so and then we'll talk about the two core
value areas, right to make it very simple.
You know in terms.
Of how how I personally see.
AI in in retail,
so next slide will be a little bit
controversial, right?
It is with with some folks,
but it is something that I strongly
believe.
Even not only because of what I just,
not because of what I've read,
but just experienced right in terms of
the research and development within
Parker,
Avery and also implementing
implementations at multiple companies
from from mid size to Fortune 500
companies in the US and abroad, so.
With that.
Basically, you know,
if I have to say you know the key right
to getting to ROI with with AI is to
focus on augmentation and not complete
automation, OK?
And this is where people wait a second,
right?
Many actually take a step back and say,
wait a second when we hear about AI,
it's it's really about,
I thought it's about the, you know.
Automation. What is this?
What is this?
You know, all, all all about.
Right. And so,
so I've got two quotes here.
And we'll we'll, you know,
we'll talk about this.
One is from myself to, you know,
in the recap to the Advisory Board,
the Parker Avery Advisory Board and a
quote from Andrew Eng. So if you,
if you would have, you know,
done any you know research or follow.
One in in AI you're you're going.
Probably Andrew is one of the one of the
people that you would be would be
following in this in this business, right?
So.
So basically what I what I said to the
Advisory Board is we want to avoid the
false economy of requiring near perfect
accuracy for automation.
The problem with automation is that you
have to make sure that.
Your that the application right?
The AI does not do anything anything
stupid.
I mean, you know,
and so I'll give you a real world example.
OK.
So for us we you know we replace and this
is multiple years ago.
In a department store where we replace
the,
you know we put a replenishment system in
place which actually did ended up in an
automated order, right.
And then shipment to the stores and we
showed that in terms of you know,
we had much better accuracies and lower
buy.
You know the the bias was near near 0.
High stability and so on and so forth,
right?
But you're talking about thousands and
10s of thousands.
Of orders that go out right? So.
So there was a case where we ordered a
truckload worth of pillows that actually
made their way to a South Carolina store,
right.
And so 99.9% of the time, you know,
the the system, the system works,
it works great.
But if you take all of the kind of the
the barriers right that that the safety.
You know,
constraints out you can run into some
some.
Serious problem.
So what winds up happening is if you
shoot for complete automation,
this is where you really get into trouble,
right?
And the idea is that is the goal, right?
Eventually you want to get there,
and then what you do is you shoot for
four for augmentation, right?
And then more augmentation over time.
Do you ever get to complete automation?
Maybe, maybe not right, but that's that.
But but if you want to get to ROI.
Quickly augmentation should be goal and
not a not complete automation.
And actually Andrew Enggs quote right
there I think is very is very supportive
of that concept as as.
Now,
if and and by the way the you know
another another great example I I think
is look,
we've implemented a large language model,
you know for in, in our,
in our demand planning.
Capability where basically we have with
the user can come in and ask the
application questions around.
A number of things could ask it to
perform analysis and so on.
If the application if we call,
ask the hypercube,
right our application build and the large
language model right gives you a proper
result even 90% of the time it is
extremely helpful.
Right we can.
We can sit there and we can actually try
to get it to 99.9% accurate.
And and we can spend another six months
or nine months,
nine months doing something like that
versus getting something that would be
extremely useful out out into the out
into the into, into the field.
OK.
Alright, so and then. OK. So with that,
let me move on, let me move on to what.
The two core value areas are right.
So when we talk about AI right,
it seems like it's a very lofty, you know,
concept, right?
Let's just make it very just very easy.
There's two real there's two things that
you use AI in retail for, right?
You're either improving efficiency or.
It's used for the purposes of decision
making.
That's it.
Right, those those are the real use cases.
And you know, I'm happy to.
Happy to discuss if you know if you all
don't agree. Happy, happy to discuss that.
But and we'll look at at examples thereof,
right.
And really dive into the decision making
part because that's that's really what
what we do.
That's really where we spend a lot of
time, right?
So efficiency, you know, faster, cheaper,
more consistent, right.
You're automating repetitive repetitive
tasks.
And there is no shortage of those tasks
right in in, in retail today,
if you look at anything from, you know,
any functional area which you see in FBA,
you know just in terms of the weekly
reports which you do in open to buy what
you have in.
You know.
Replenishment allocation.
There's a lot of things that are just
that,
that that can be that that can be
automated, right?
You need to make sure that you have
guardrails associated with those as we
spoke about,
but there's no shortage of those
repetitive tasks right to be streamlined.
You know there there's some examples
around customer service. You know,
look is there's no reason for human being
to actually answer the answer.
The question of what are your.
What are your hours?
Right. What you know are, you know,
are you going to be closed for Memorial
Day things and things of that nature?
Right. That's that can now be easily done.
And then and then the the other use case
is really on on,
on decision decision making in decision
making. You know,
we'll talk about we'll talk about some of
this. But you know what?
What is my what is my best price?
How how much inventory?
Do I need to have in a particular place?
Well, you could say, well, wait a second,
I already, you know,
are you just talking about basic
forecasting and and things like price,
you know, things like price optimization.
Well,
it's it's it's a little bit more than
that, right.
So it's it's yes,
that's that's augmentation.
But with AI we take that to a very,
very different very different level.
OK. And and in time actually,
you know our our the use case,
I mean the that we'll talk about is
really the collaboration between.
Different functions and how AI actually
makes it a lot more, more, more efficient,
right?
And this is this is this is something
that we have implemented in multiple the
multiple places.
So, so. So we'll get into that, all right.
But first,
let's just talk about the efficiency.
I want to.
You know, it's not a case study,
but it's it's just a focused example,
right? So.
And and and and. By the way,
I have no stock position in Hulu.
Actually,
they're they're they're they're not a
public company, a private company.
But anyway,
I have no shares in that company.
I I do know the the the CEO,
but look it's.
But I really like to this particular use
case for for efficiency.
So I wanted to to bring that up.
Right. So so when you're talking about,
you know getting ROI in, in,
in retail and you're talking about the
efficiency example,
Hulu I think is is a great is a great
example of that, right?
So many of the things that they automate,
their other companies that that do.
So if we're talking about robotic process
automation or software test software,
test automation, right?
You know, and some of these other things,
there are other companies that that
actually do that actually do that.
For example, software test automation.
By the way, we have improved.
Our software.
You know, software process, right?
Right by automating by automating testing
in that you know by the way,
we're constantly adding functionality,
for example into our demand planning tool.
Yeah, and.
And oftentimes when you add functionality,
you wind up breaking.
You wind up breaking things that actually
worked before,
so there's no reason why you need to have
a tester actually go through and hit
those buttons to make sure you didn't
break anything. Right.
Nowadays you can actually have automated
very much automated software testing
tools, which we'll go.
Through and and make you know just very
quickly tell you.
Did you break anything?
Where did you break it?
And so on.
But but they go.
They go once but, but where they go?
I they go one step further and and I
think I think it's.
I think it's it's it's the next level of
of efficiency.
What they will do is they will monitor
your your processes.
They will monitor, you know,
the way that you work.
So if you're a replenishment analyst or
you're a you work in merchant.
Financial planning.
But basically,
a Hulu will monitor what tasks you go
through on a daily basis,
OK and what they will then do is they
will suggest places for for automation,
OK and then actually not only will they
suggest places for automation.
They will actually help you with to
automate those particular tasks.
In the number of tasks that are automated
actually increase increase over over time,
right?
So it's a continuous improvement loop,
right?
This gets to the idea of not full
automation, right?
You're its augmentation,
but it's increased augmentation over over
time.
OK,
the this I actually this is the first
time that that I saw that and I thought
yeah, this is this is definitely.
Moving in the in the right direction from
an from a AI in a,
you know inefficiency improvement side of
the house, OK.
So anyway,
you guys may want to check that out.
There's there's of course many examples
of of efficiency plays in this field.
There's a, you know, for example,
this company called Deepao,
which actually.
Creates, you know,
if you wanted to create these multimodal
AI to for example.
To create standard operating procedures,
right? So so you know,
if you can actually.
You can actually tape yourself performing
certain tasks and they they can
understand what's happening. You know,
in the video plus the speech.
And it will actually write a standard
operating procedure for you.
Something that used to take, you know,
you know, weeks can now be done in, in,
in hours, right.
Of course, you're going to go through.
You're going to check there's going to be
places where it's not.
Where it's not perfect. Again, that's,
you know, it's not full automation,
but it's a heck of a lot of, you know,
augmentation, right.
Which certainly makes you more and more
efficient. OK.
So. So with that, I want to now move to.
To the decision,
a decision making focused example,
that's what I believe is the second core
core value for for AI in in, in retail.
All right, so let's let's,
let's talk about, you know,
this is a specific use case.
Why that that we've that we get involved
with and this is this is going to be
around.
What I call a unified what I call a
unified.
Demand signal all right and so.
You know,
here's a here's a situation where.
You have multiple demand signals.
Call them.
Call them forecasts.
I call them demand signals because it's
it's actually not only because sometimes
it's not a statistical forecast.
Sometimes it is a human projection,
sometimes they will include levers for
things like pricing or or external
factors.
Like consumer sentiment and so on and so
forth.
So if you look across finance,
merchandising, marketing, operations,
planning, pricing,
supply chain fulfillment,
they will all have different demand
demand signals.
And usually they'll have a multitude of
forecasts, OK?
And So what winds up happening is think
about what would happen in a in a
situation you know.
And we've all seen this in the store and
I, you know.
So let's say your your local grocery
store.
They promote a particular a particular
product come in and you know we're going
to have a, you know,
24 pack of Pepsi on sale, right?
It's we're going to run a BOGO.
You come into the store and the shelf is
the shelf is empty,
or you come into the store,
there's a big sale on athletic shoes.
At at Macy's.
But you know what?
There's just not enough.
Not enough people.
To.
To to help to provide the proper you know.
Assistance, right?
How does that again?
How does that that happen?
Is that you know the planning that the
merchandise planning is done with one
system,
the promotional planning is done with
with with another system to store labor
is done with with a third and by the way
in terms of their demand there's there's
no match whatsoever.
OK, so so to address this issue,
you probably heard of something called as
an snop process or or integrated business
planning, right?
Those are kind of things that have been
put in place by companies to deal with
this particular this particular issue, OK,
and this is a non non AI approach to
solving the problem.
So what happens is in sales and
operations planning.
You you have a a,
you you come up with an understanding.
What your demand plan is about once a
month and it's some added some aggregate
level that may or may not work for all of
your functions.
Oh, and by the way.
It it'll it'll be based on the metric
again that that may or may not work for
for the function that you're in.
For example, if you could be forecasting,
normally it's a projection of dollars or
or units,
but in finance you know you're interested
in, you know.
In margin and so on and so on and so
forth and in some,
some are interested in the 2436 month
signal.
Others are interested in a in a
three-week out signal.
If if you're talking about fulfillment
and so on.
So again,
this is this kind of starts to align your
your your functions but and by the way
this is also done in a in a monthly level.
Alright,
it aligns them to but but not but but not
really so.
And then you'll go through the process of
taking this demand signal across
different functions.
You'll take it to the executive committee.
They'll sign off on it and then you start
to process again the next the next month.
Well, the the opportunity here, right?
And this is where we're getting into the
the augmentation is is a continuous cycle.
By which actually you have one demand
signal which actually works its way
across.
All the the Geo prod channel,
all of your hierarchies across time.
So so a telescopic signal,
different granularities of time,
but then also different metrics as well.
And self reconciling so that so that you
know, if you're talking about.
The supply chain.
There you see DC slots.
If we're talking about operations.
We're talking about labor hours.
If you're talking about finance,
you're talking about dollars and gross,
you know, and, you know,
in terms of revenue.
And then you're talking about gross
margin and so on.
If you're talking about planning,
you've got, you've got units.
So so regardless of what?
Whatever function you're in and you know
you have your projection in the metric
that it's in now,
what do you do with with with?
In each one of these areas.
Right.
We'll have a set of levers that they can
pull which will affect the entire what we
call hypercube, right.
So when pricing pulls the lever on a
particular promotion.
That.
That is seen in in manufacturing supply
chain operations in real time and then
you can see you know you know is there is
there a constraint so so for example I
can give you the the party city example
that I mean they.
They're unfortunately,
they're they've they're no longer in
business, not due to us,
but so in in that particular example,
what we're doing, you know,
taking marks or or for markdown
optimization or we're changing changing
prices.
We would suggest, for example, here's.
Here's here's the price changes that need
to be made will,
which will of course optimize the
following metrics. And you know,
that's great. You know. However,
when it makes it,
which means that by the way,
that you need to make a certain number of
changes per stores it.
Comes back to to operations say well,
wait a second.
We don't have the labor to make all of
those.
Those price changes, right?
And that's seen there in, in, in real, in,
in, in real, in real time, OK.
And So what that allows you to do is
instead of waiting for the monthly
process,
you can run all sorts of simulations and
see how you know.
You know that gave you a scenario here.
Let's say you're executing a Bogo,
buy one, get one free and that that.
Would mean a 3.6 X.
Increase in in units, right?
So.
So then you get to see what are your
implications across all of your all of
the business functions?
At at the same at the same time.
Now,
if you if you have that capability right,
this sets you up for.
Something that will talk about, which is,
you know, you can then ask.
You can then ask AI you know through.
AI to run.
Through our agentic AI model to start
running scenarios which actually address
certain business challenges and we'll get
into that in our when we talk about the
AI sophistication curve, OK.
But for the most part, guys are you.
Are you with me, Eric?
You know, I'm going to all good.
Yeah, I I am definitely enjoying this.
Good.
Hopefully the students love it.
Yeah.
I I think there's a lot of information
and definitely it is.
It's a good, good, very good presentation,
very informative.
No, no, that's fine.
I just want to make sure if there's any
areas that I need to go into more depth.
Happy, happy, happy to do happy.
Happy to do so.
So. So by the way,
when we when we talk about so this this
hypercube which sits in the middle of all
of these different functions.
You know, so So what really is that right?
It is a.
It is a projection so so when we talk
about cubes, right, we talked about.
Know in in the concept of business
intelligence.
But that's all backward.
You know,
historical viewing backward looking right.
This is A1 self reconciling demand signal
across all of your all of your
hierarchies, right?
And here's some examples of of a
hierarchy for, let's say.
For you know, for for a company.
So let's see.
We go from total merch all the way down
to orderable SKU and then it's connected
to to material.
So so this is this is where you can start.
You know,
use your bill of materials to get from
audible SKU all the way down to your
material SKU.
So you can do some of your demand supply
plan balancing, right?
So think about a situation where you
start pulling levers where you start
running simulations around what would
happen in a high consumer sentiment
environment or high inflation environment,
which by the way, we've done.
For a very large company,
about six months before the supply chain
brunch, and they wound up to actually.
Weathering it a lot better,
but you start to understand well, OK.
If you pull those levers.
What does that mean in terms of, you know,
capacity planning or material planning,
things of that sort?
How many DC slots am I going to need in a
particular in a particular region?
What is my category mix?
Going to look like in different
environments, right?
And then there's a time hierarchy there,
right?
So sometimes we can go intraday.
Like this one goes from day.
All the way up to rolling by.
Year, right.
So depending on on the function.
There is going to be a a different need.
I mean, if we're talking about labor,
if you're planning labor,
you want it down to the day or intraday
level.
If you're talking about a capital
investment, then you know,
then the needs could be by by month.
Or or even sometimes by by year.
If we're talking about a long range
planning planning process. OK,
so that that is the unified demand signal
that actually powers what we talked about.
Now let's seek out just for a little bit
now in terms of in terms of AI, right?
So when you're talking about the some of
the large language models and some of the,
you know, getting more accurate, right?
By having this, you know, architecture,
what we can do is we can.
We can train the we can do a lot of
prompt engineering around teaching the
model.
What the data?
What the data is right?
So every customer is gonna have their own
hierarchy,
but we can teach the model to say, OK,
this is this is your Geo,
these are your prod,
this is your channel hierarchy.
These are your demand drivers and so on.
And so the language,
the large language model has has an
advantage with an advantage in
understanding your your your data OK.
And that's a that's a big step forward in
getting better or more accurate results
coming out of the out of the model.
You know, even with, you know,
if you look at 01 and you know the the
open eye, the 13 models,
I mean that they're getting better by the
day.
But Amy Legg up that you can give them is
going to is going to get to you to to
much, much better place all right.
Well, how you know?
Just very quickly how do we actually get
to this this hypercube. And by the way,
for each of those nodes,
again across all of these different
hierarchies,
not only do you have a projection, right,
so.
And the companies that we work with that
goes that, it goes for up to you know.
Six years out. So we're talking about,
you know,
day short term all the way to six,
six years out from the lowest persistent
level,
all the way to total company across
across the hierarchy.
So how do we how do we do that?
I'm gonna.
I'm gonna run you through a a kind of a
of a, you know, just just.
Just a few things that are there.
That are required to make to make this
happen.
As I'll point this out, you know,
by the way,
some of this these will turn into agents,
right?
That we can that the we can call on but
but basically to fill the hypercube.
The first thing that you need you got
data coming in all the time, right.
So we have an automated data cleansing
methodology, right?
That you really have to pay attention to.
So you know, so you know,
there are things that.
Like like product lineage,
right connecting,
connecting different items.
Understanding where you need to impute to
impute demand and we've been working on
on imputation algorithms and so on.
You know their data filters and so on,
and we do this all in an in a in an
automated way that you know happens
either in a weekly basis,
a daily or or a monthly basis,
depending on how often we run these
models. We have a driver model.
Capability which.
Which actually?
We've been it has been evolving for, for,
for, for many, many years,
which allows us to take in a dozens of of.
External as well as internal factors,
you know we talked about price.
Can you know?
You could think about cross elasticity?
Your own elasticity.
Consumer sentiment inflation. You know,
in all of those things working,
working together and and actually being
able to isolate those factors and take
those out of what we.
Call.
A.
You know intrinsic demand and then there
is this algorithm that there's the based
on the paper that Eric,
George and I wrote.
But but this concept of dynamic
aggregation is figuring out what is the
right level to produce a demand a a,
a demand signal, right?
So it turns outlook.
There's a lot of algorithms out there,
it turns out for still, if you need.
A telescopic forecast if you want one
signal,
there's still you know the time series
algorithms still do.
Extremely, extremely well there,
but the key is understanding it.
What is the lowest level?
What is the level at which you can get
the bet the right signal to noise ratio
right?
To be able to produce a stable signal
across time.
There's a champion Challenger modeling
model for base demand forecasting.
Once we understand what is the right.
What is the right level?
A lot of that is commodity we keep adding.
Other algorithms in here all the time and
it could be Lstms or it could be
exponential smoothing models and so on.
And by the way,
they'll still win a lot in in the
champion challenger.
Format and then look.
It's really using and then we, you know,
depend with the regardless of the level,
we'll still need to get a signal at the
very lowest level,
so we'll use a combination of of
attributes and and sales to to get to get
to the very lowest level.
Level,
except now we also utilize things like.
We will scrape information from the web
to understand trends for for for you know
certain attributes, and and so on.
And then we use that again in, in,
in the disaggregation,
there's a company called First Insights,
which has a value score which will tell
you which will tell.
You how for example,
how customers view different.
You know if you if you have a style of
shoes.
For example,
how they view one caller with respect to
the other and that could be an input into
the segregation as well.
And then you need some diagnostics to
understand what's going on,
including things like anomaly detection,
right?
To help you detect issues early on.
So all of this together helps us form
this demand signal that we put into the
to the hypercube, right?
This is for better decision making.
OK, a lot of information here, by the way,
as I mentioned to you all and to Erik at
the beginning of all this,
I'm going to share these these slides, OK.
In the so, so, so by the way,
in terms of and and now now after we we
get this hypercube right,
let's talk a little bit about some of the
other components that we work with for,
for you know this you know for the
decision making process.
Process so the hypercube right is the
basis from which we're gonna start to
work.
To help us make these better decisions.
So on top of this,
on top of this unified demand signal,
we have what I call an optimization layer
and that optimization layer is a multi
object.
Optimization. What do I mean by that?
Right is.
You know you.
You will see instead of just optimizing.
Margin or let's say revenue,
you can actually optimize on multiple
objectives like a revenue margin, units,
other other things as well in the
proportion of strategic or category
intent.
And since by the way we also produce
probabilistic forecast at the lowest
level.
You know then then you can use it for
inventory optimization as as well.
OK now so so you can then optimize on top
of that.
We have our collaboration layer in
collaboration layer is your visualization,
your planning layer and that's where the
generative AI or the gentech AI really
comes in, OK.
So that sits on top of your optimization
and and your hyper and your hyper queue.
OK.
So then you can think about well,
wait a second now.
I can ask now.
I can start to ask you the hyper.
Cube for example.
Of you know,
one of my highest trending products,
you know from an information standpoint.
But you could also start doing is to say
well.
Can you?
You know,
let's say optimize a particular category,
the price for a particular category to
drive units.
Let's say you're down down units.
Well,
it can produce different scenarios for
you and do this without having to go to
an analyst and ask him to run to run the
particular process.
It will.
It will actually take that.
It'll know to call a particular agent to
run that particular simulation and
produce and and and come back with a set
of of of results right?
When we talk about the AI sophistication
curve and we will get there and we'll get
there in a little bit.
You you know.
The real.
The real then challenge is.
The last step of that is actually.
Tell me you know,
give me a business challenge, right?
And then have the have the agent take AI
run multiple scenarios in multiple agents
in different order, right?
Accounting for constraints in the
different functions.
Remember we talked about now the
different functions are connected.
Right.
Because we have this one demand signal
which is across multiple metrics.
So now when you run a scenario,
for example for price,
you understand if you're running into
constraints from a labor perspective or
from,
you know in things that you may have not
taken into account into that optimization
model.
And and run that in in in in different
you know in different in different order
and so on to give you multiple scenarios
for for you to make a business.
Business decision, OK.
So,
so to kind of bring that home a little
bit, you know,
I want to talk a little bit about price,
you know, price optimization, you know,
so how and how that you know the these
multi metrics work in a multi objective.
Scenario right?
So so typically you know when we thought
when we we did a price optimization in
the old old way of doing things.
Things basically we looked at.
There was a margin.
There was usually a margin focused and we
would find the, you know,
way of optimizing gross margin.
Then we would look a little bit to the
right left depending on revenue. And yeah,
I mean and that's what we would we would
go with whereas today we take more of a
balanced approach.
Right.
We we don't only look at revenue margin.
And we we really you know.
You know,
we really look at what does that do to
our share. There was a,
there was a large company that I worked
with in 2005.
But look, I'll just say it right.
It was worked with Sears,
right and where we were optimizing,
we were optimizing price for them,
doing price optimization for them in the
first year,
we took out a lot in terms of gross,
in terms of additional margin and you
know Ndas and so on.
Can't tell you exactly what that number
is and so on,
but it was it was a large amount.
Next year,
you could take less and less and less.
Today I would ask you.
To find me or.
Tell me where your local seer store is.
It's not.
It's not there, right?
Is, is is the answer.
And then of course you can go the the the
other direction,
which is you can be completely unit
focused and that's the example of the
right there where you're solely focused
on, on,
on just you know driving shared driving
units and then you know you know that
scen.
Where you have A380 basis points drop in
in margin you know.
If you have acfo,
that'll never see the light of day.
So we don't have to worry about that that
scenario,
but a more of a balanced approach really
allows you based on on your category
strategic intent is to to keep all of
those things in balance.
What I've seen my career over the last 20
some years is you pull the lever in One
Direction too hard, right?
And then, Oh my gosh,
2 two months later you say, whoa,
what happened to? To to Eunice and then?
Then then you go overboard.
The other direction,
and so on versus taking.
A more balanced approach.
To to begin with. OK.
The other thing is you also need to
understand what is happening to to
competition which which by the way,
you'd say, well, wait a second, don't you?
So, so,
so typically what we what we do is
companies will identify what are called
as key value items.
Right.
And so those key value items which you
will do based on brand image,
you will you will match against against
competition, right?
You're going to be either 5% lower than,
let's say,
or 5% higher or right at you'll match
Walmart or ALDI,
let's say in this or you know,
and then for everything else,
you will optimize the rest of that
particular choice set in such a way that.
You're optimizing the metrics that we
talked about.
Before, right?
But now that you are looking at all of
those metrics,
you can and you can run simulations,
right?
You can see where and you know and you do
have this generative AI capability and of
asking, let's say the the hypercube.
You can now have the analysts start to.
I mean, you don't need a business analyst.
You can have the business user start to
ask.
The.
The the hypercube, right?
What we call ask the hypercube.
To give you scenarios what would happen
if I was to do to do certain certain
things,
which and I I know I know where we're
going to be against time.
So. So I'm going to switch to.
I'm going to.
That's why I want to get to the AI
sophistication curve.
Here and and just just bring this all all
together, right?
So we talk when I talk about AI
sophistication curve in the supportive
decision making.
What does that?
That really mean and and by the way,
this was our way of of also focusing on
on augmentation,
right and getting to something useful,
right.
And continuing up that sophistication
curve as as our models became more more
accurate.
So the first thing is, you know,
that's very easy and you know within you
know the planning application which you
have here.
You, you know, you go around planning.
But but as you're planning,
you may have questions like what are my
highest price elasticity classes.
What is my sell through rate by subclass
right?
These are easy queries, right?
You look at that,
you look at those historically,
but you should be able to write them in
this way.
There's no reason for a planner.
You know what would happen to have to
happen in the in in the past is you would
write an e-mail to to an analyst, right?
They would go and run a query.
They'd come back to you and.
The query was not quite right,
so sometimes this could be.
A 2-3 day process.
I'm not.
I'm. I'm not joking right today.
Today it's and this is, you know,
very accurate.
You can come in basically within the
application while you're planning.
You pull up the ask the hypercube.
You know, hit a bit that icon,
but type in the question.
In English it comes back to you very
quickly with with,
with your answers and and you keep on
going.
Within, you know within the application.
Yes, we do this.
But there's a.
There's a slew of folks that do this as
well. You can do this with lagility.
You can do this within a number of
different different applications.
This is becoming this is table stakes now,
right?
You will never live in a world that we
lived in 10-15 years ago.
Where where?
You know where you have that interaction
that that I talked about.
Then we went further. OK, great.
Give me the basic information,
but then the next step is.
Process now.
Process that information. OK,
so so basically run some simple analysis
for me.
Run a Pareto analysis on SKU sales with a
higher within a higher level, right?
So, you know, do I have a long?
Do I have a long tail?
You know,
this is the question that we ask
ourselves in assortment planning.
All all, all the time.
Then you can like you know if you also
have the inventory you know for example
you may say you know I gave you an
example.
Of running the BOGO the customer comes in,
you've got empty shelves, right?
So let's analyze lost sales right for a
merchandise class.
Linked to a specific event, right?
So what went?
What went wrong?
And and that's that's, you know.
And so now you're getting more and more
ROI, right?
You know, off from this,
this this as you move along.
And then and then we, we, we,
we we took it a step further.
Right, so help me evaluate options, right?
So we talked about all of these levers
that you have within the hypercube where
you know you could, you know,
we said pricing, marketing, right.
Also we can run,
you know simulation as of what happens in
in.
You know if if certain macroeconomic
conditions are there.
Basically, you know,
let's you know we the business users can
go in and start to evaluate options.
If they pull certain levers,
what would happen.
Would I hit certain constraints?
What would my financial metrics be when
those, you know when those things happen,
right?
So those are the evaluate options.
You know,
call it phase or or step on the
sophistication curve ladder,
OK and then and then really I think I
wanna call this Nirvana.
But you know this is.
This is what what we really wanna get to.
And look, we're still working here.
There are others.
Who have gotten there in some way or
another,
but this is not quite quite there yet.
For, for for anybody really.
And that is really generate
recommendations based on the on the user
defined challenges, right?
So so for example I am sitting there and
I am $2,000,
000 being you know I have a $2,000,
000 revenue gap, right?
Item $2,000,
000 between behind plan help me feel.
Help me. Help me you know close that gap.
Basically, you know you have so, so,
so you have all of these levers.
All right.
You have agents which produce these
lovers.
Help me understand, right?
Run the run those it come up with a set
of.
Of of scenarios which close that gap and
then what I can do is start to make a
business decision.
Right. What are what are what are those?
Which scenarios should I go with?
Or it leads me to the into the you know
helps me lead me into the right direction
in terms of of of where where I should
where I should go.
Right there. These, these,
these meanings around open to buy, right?
They're happening on well on a monthly
basis and and by the way,
the preparation for those meetings,
it takes the rest of the rest of the
month, right.
The the amount of time saved or the the
the the quality of the decisions that can
be made right.
Having tools like this in place.
I mean there's a,
there's a absolutely a tremendous.
Value in having in having that what I
would tell anybody who is who is starting
out in this in,
in this process it's you don't have to
get to step three and four right.
Right away start.
There's an incredible amount of value in
just in just step one.
If you look across your organization and
understand what it takes.
You know how much time is being spent in
in,
in evaluating right in getting answers.
For for just these basic things, right?
Then just that may be a very good place
to start and just move and then and then
move up the the sophistication curve, OK.
So I think with that I want to thank you
all for you know for the time.
Look again, Eric.
I want to thank you for for giving me the
opportunity to present.
To your class.
I I very much enjoyed it and and now,
by the way, I don't have a hard stop.
So if any of you guys have any questions
or or comments or or would like to go to
any any part of this or dive deeper into
any area, I'm very happy to do so.
Oh, thank you, Sam.
This is definitely our our pressure to
have you here is a very a lot of
information about #1 AI and machine
learning in in the retail area.
And then it's a pretty pretty cool
product you guys built. It's awesome.
Take care.
It's awesome and definitely echo your
points. A lot of company didn't went to.
You know your your step #4.
A lot of companies just basically doing
#1 and #2.
Yeah.
Just just on the echo,
that point is totally, totally right.
Any questions folks?
I do have some questions,
but I I just definitely wanna wait for
your questions before before I ask.
OK,
so so so so it seems like people are
still digesting.
So then let me ask you a question, Sam.
Sure.
So then I I know right?
So then we have.
You know you you have collected some data
and then running through the algorithm
and then.
But we also know that currently there are
some turbulence, right?
So then created by whoever we we we both
know.
So then do you still think that?
Going forward,
we should trust the model suggested
numbers.
Those suggested strategy towards pricing
towards allocation,
replenishment towards a lot of things.
Yeah. So, OK.
Very good, right?
So the question was,
what do you do with it?
Yeah.
It's a very similar question like would
these models work the day before,
before COVID?
First of all, I don't believe it's it's.
It's as bad as that.
So in in that in.
So let me go back to the to,
to the to the COVID case.
In the case of COVID.
Here's a situation where any model that
you would have had would have been in a
in a pretty.
A pretty bad, pretty bad shape, right?
As you were going through.
Mm hmm.
And then by the way, when it started,
this is when we started to collect
information on things like COVID deaths
by state. And actually, if you remember,
that's what actually drove policy, right?
And that's what actually led to, you know,
differences in sales,
I'll tell you that around that time we
were working with.
With, you know,
alcohol distribution company right in
multi tier system and.
And you could have on premise and off
premise.
So on premise, which you know,
the bars and so on that went to near zero
off premise shot shot through the roof.
And So what we found was data that would
actually start to to explain that right.
So when we get to times of high
volatility,
you're going to you're going to see
issues with with the accuracy of of your
of your, of your of your forecast.
Right. And so you know,
so for some time here, you know?
They're not going to be they're not going
to be useful.
You mean you could get a situation where
they're not useful?
I don't believe that this is going to be
as bad as COVID, right?
But it's going to take some time for you
to understand, right?
To be able to understand what is actually
are the drivers that you can actually get
into your models.
That, that, that,
that help explain what is happening.
I believe today things like consumer
sentiment, inflation,
there are macroeconomic variables today
that that are there that could that very
much could explain the variability in the
model.
Is it going to be perfect?
No. Can you?
Will you get better as as as we get,
you know, as we go along.
Absolutely, it's.
But I don't want to have it give you any
type of rose colored glass.
Answer where where I could say there's
something that you could do right now to
account for all of the volatility that
that we're seeing in the in the market.
And also you said Parker Avery is is
swerving some information and then we do
know in this class that we have,
there is a thing called SCC Edgar.
So that's a sort of like the data,
you know,
the public companies reporting their
10K10Q reports for for SEC.
I don't know if that's a part of data you
guys are using in your tool and then
whether or not you just provided any way
to.
The to your customers.
So if from a from a competitor standpoint
it it can be,
if you're working with a particular
company, the 10,
Yeah.
the 10Q or the 10K can help explain you
why you're there in, in,
in in the first place.
Correct, correct.
But in terms of the type of of data that
we're working with, it's, you know,
a lot of it is is, you know,
the macroeconomic, we tend to source from.
From Fred,
you know there's there's there's other
companies like Privateer and Moody's,
which actually have which.
Take that information and then harmonize
that with with other countries
information you know to make it easier
for you to, for example, to have a A,
you know, global projections and so on.
We, we, we, we we scrape.
We scrape information to understand
things like trends and trends and fashion
what's happen, competitor pricing.
That that we actually do do ourselves and
sometimes sometimes partner with,
and sometimes we actually partner with
with companies like for instanceite,
there's there's a,
there's a startup called InStyle as well
to help you understand what are the,
what are the trends right in in.
Not only different markets, but for.
You know in fashion, right?
Which help you produce, you know.
Produce produce those projects.
Forecasts, you know, so on.
Got it, got it.
Yeah, yeah,
the 10K10Q data has a lot of limitations
because they only provide you some.
Something already happened.
And then you know the manager is gonna
give you some opinion like. Well,
they think that what gonna happen in the
in the coming time and no one really.
Well except for the Wall Street. Right.
So they're gonna impact reflect those
information in their stock price but no.
One really check their their opinions
whether it holds to be right.
From from a year later.
So that's,
that's the definitely the limitation of
using those data.
Any questions from the students?
I you know,
Sam value your time is already 636,
so maybe one last question.
One last question.
Could be easier any any summer interns
for Marquette students?
So. So by the way it's, I mean, are,
are we talking about second years or?
So I would say.
So for.
Yeah, we have this.
This is a combination of two classes,
right?
So then we have 1/2 of class from
undergrad program and half of the class
from grass programs and then Master's
MBAs are are actually here.
Yeah.
So you would have here I mean a lot of
the stuff you would have heard heard
already,
hopefully around the importance of of
internships and experience with, with,
with companies.
Some of this doesn't even have to be,
you know, official official experience,
right? So.
You know,
we we sometimes get involved with doing
projects with people who are.
Who are in school?
That could be kind of.
Just just basically smaller 33 to,
you know,
week or sometimes up to two-month
two-month engagement where we can we can
build out a particular offering but also
the the the students get experience you
know in in industry all of those things I
mean those things.
Are obviously going to be going to be
important, right?
And help you stand out as.
As you hit the hit, hit the job market.
Got it, got it.
Zero.
All right, guys, thank you again.
Thank you so much, Sam.
Thank you so much.
I will forward Eric.
I'll forward this to you and and once
again it was.
It was my pleasure and honor to be with
you all today and and you know,
please have a have a, you know,
the regular rest of your day.
Another no problem.
Thank you so much, Sam.
Thank you.
Oh,
I took some pictures while you were doing
Thanks Sam.
the presentation. I will.
I will send a picture and and then it's
recording to you.
Pepper.
All right.
Thank you.
All right.
Alright, have a good one.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
Thank you so much. Bye.
Thank you, Sam.
Bye bye.
All right for. Oh, well, I'm.
I don't know why I'm I'm showing here.
So the for the students that's take 15
minutes break. So we come back 653. OK,
thank you.